DIGImend kernel drivers
=======================

This is a collection of graphics tablet drivers for the Linux kernel, produced
and maintained by the DIGImend project. We maintain this package to provide
newer drivers for older kernel versions which don't have them, and to allow
users to test new drivers before we contribute them to the mainline kernel.

This package supersedes the huion-driver package.

Model support is as follows:

    Original                    Rebranded as            Status*             Upstream in

       Huion 540                                        works               3.17
             580                                        likely works        3.11
             H420               osu!tablet              works               3.17
             H610                                       works               3.17
             H610 Pro                                   works               3.17
             H690                                       works               3.17
             K58                                        works               3.11
             W58                                        likely works        3.11
             W58L                                       works               3.11
             other                                      possibly works      3.17

     Yiynova MSP19U                                     works
             MSP19U+                                    works
             MVP22U+                                    works
             MVP10U                                     works (t)
             MVP10U IPS                                 works (t)
             MVP10U HD IPS                              works (t)
             DP10U                                      works (t)
             DP10U+                                     works (t)

         KYE MousePen i608X v2  Genius MousePen i608X   works

    Polostar PT-1001            Leogics PT-1001         works

    * "works"           - tested, works
      "likely works"    - not tested, likely works (75% chance)
      "possibly works"  - not tested, possibly works (50% chance)

    (t) concerns only the input part of this display tablet, output (display)
        support is not provided by this package and should be verified
        separately

Please send your testing results to DIGImend-devel@lists.sourceforge.net, or
do a pull request with updates.

Installing
----------

Kernel v3.5 or newer is required. Kernel headers or the build tree for the
running kernel are required.

On Debian-derived systems (such as Ubuntu and Mint) headers can be obtained by
installing appropriate version of `linux-headers` package. On Red Hat and
derived distributions the package name is `kernel-headers`.

Download one of the releases from the [releases
page](https://github.com/DIGImend/digimend-kernel-drivers/releases). The
"Download ZIP" link on the right of the GitHub page leads to the current
development version, use it only if you know what you're doing.

To build the drivers run `make` in the package's directory.

Please disregard the possible "Can't read private key" messages. They don't
affect the driver functionality, unless you set up kernel module signature
verification.

To install the drivers run `make install` as root in the package's directory.

See the DIGImend project [support page](http://digimend.github.io/support/)
for further setup instructions.

Upgrading
---------

If you run a kernel which already has a driver for your tablet with the same
name as the one being installed (including the case of upgrading an
installation of this package), you will need to unload the installed kernel's
driver using the `rmmod` command and then to (re-)plug the tablet in to allow
the driver from this package to take over.

For example, if you run a v3.11 or later kernel, and/or would like to upgrade
the driver for Huion tablets, then after installing this package you will need
to execute `rmmod hid-huion`, and then disconnect and reconnect the tablet to
make it work.

Alternatively, you can simply reboot the machine.

Uninstalling
------------

To uninstall the package execute `make uninstall` as root in the package
source directory.
